I am
here today to talk about
"The future of accessibility."
There's a number of
initiatives underway,
and if you're not
tracking what the W3C is doing,
this will kind of be a
summary of what's coming,
plus or minus over
the next two years.
Some of the things I can talk
about in fairly concrete terms.
Some of the things are a
little bit still up in the air,
so I'll try to point out at each
step what stuff is done versus
what stuff is still a
little bit in flux.
Recently, I transitioned,
a role at VMware.
I went from being the
Accessibility Manager for the
program that I started up
into being
an Accessibility Architect.
And so what that means is I
get to focus on accessibility
innovation and outreach, and
that freed up a lot of time for
me to work on a number
of different
accessibility initiatives.
So I belong to the ITIC Group,
where they're the people who
decide what the VPAT
templates look like.
I'm on the IAAP
Global Leadership Council.
I work in two
different segments of W3C.
One segment is the
overall Silver program,
which we'll talk about in
more detail in a few minutes,
and the other is the
Maturity Modeling Subcommittee.
So part of Silver will contain
a maturity model where you can
figure out where the
organization is doing well at
maturity and where you
need a little bit of work.
And that program is set to
scale from one-person consulting
companies, all the way up
through companies the size
of VMware, and universities
and government organizations.
So with that introduction,
I'm going to go ahead
and get started.
So first, I'm going to assume
that you guys don't really know
anything about W3C, and I'm
going to take us through
an accessibility timeline.
It's like how did we get here,
where we are today and what is
it that we know is pending.
I'm going to talk a little
bit about general WordPress
accessibility advice.
I'll talk about the guidelines
in the WCAG that are going to be
updated in the next release, and
also the new guidelines that
are pending.
So first of all, the timeline.
So accessibility started before
2006 but it really hit the map
on 2006.
I can't believe it's been 14
years since the Target lawsuit.
So the Target lawsuit was
the first lawsuit in the
United States, we are a
very litigious country,
that went all the way
to a written ruling.
And the written ruling was yes,
websites have to be accessible.
And coincidently, that's also
around the time where
WCAG 1.0 came out.
At the end of 2008,
WCAG 2.0 came out.
So what happened around
the same time as WCAG 2.0?
iPhones.
So there were no mobile specific
guidelines in WCAG 2.0 because
mobile and native apps really
weren't a thing when WCAG 2.0
was released.
So then we had kind of a long
gap where of about ten years.
And then in the summer of
2018, WCAG 2.1 was released,
so this was plus or
minus two years ago.
And also Section 508
merged with WCAG 2.0,
which was the older version.
So Section 508 is the public
sector purchasing rules in
the United States.
And in the United States, the
definition of the public sector
is anybody who's spending
federal money either directly
or indirectly.
So that includes
things like, you know,
government organizations,
the military,
health and human
services, the TSA.
But it also includes people
who get money from the feds.
So it's anybody who's spending
Medicaid and Medicare money,
which is hospitals.
It's anybody that's in any type
of publicly supported schools,
all the way from
preschool head start programs,
all the way up through
public graduate programs
in universities.
It's all the states.
It's all the municipalities.
It's the civil service,
the post office,
the court systems,
the police systems.
Everything I just
identified there,
comes under Section 508.
And there are rules in 508 that say
you can't buy anything that's
not compliant with WCAG 2.0.
Now, unfortunately, for the 16
years that 508 had existed up
until that point, because it had
its own standard previously that
also said things
had to be accessible,
but it was being
measured in a different way,
508 was more known for
people not following the rules,
then following the rules.
So, in 2019, September 23rd,
the EU had its stop sell
web soft deadline.
And what that meant is any
software that was released after
this date that was going to
be public facing had to be
accessible or the EU
governments wouldn't buy it.
So again, the United States is
very litigious so what happened?
People who have disabilities
started suing companies who
weren't complying with WCAG 2.0.
And we've had 4600
lawsuits in the last two years.
Looking at the 2020 trends, it
might've dropped a little bit,
but only because the courthouses
were closed for three months
for nonemergency
cases in most states.
And so, the trends now are back
up to where they were
in 2018 and 2019.
2020 will be a little bit lower
overall but only because of
COVID, not because filing
lawsuits is slowing down
for accessibility.
So initially it was the public
that was suing
over accessibility.
"I can't buy my Beyonce goods."
"I can't buy my NBA tickets.
Now, what's happening is
employees are suing employers
for disability discrimination
over inaccessibility.
"I couldn't get this job.
I couldn't get this transfer
because you choose to buy
inaccessible software."
So putting the pressure on
companies not only to build
accessible software but to
buy accessible software.
Okay, we just passed the
stop sell firm deadline
for the EU in 2020.
That was September
23rd, which was,
you know, a little over
a week and a half ago.
You are here so that's where
we are with respect to this
accessibility timeline.
In 2021, in Canada,
AODA, in particular,
A-O-D-A, 2.0 AA will
kick in January 1st.
Up until now, Canada in Ontario
has only been required to meet
WCAG 2.0, and the native app
piece of the European Union
legislation will
be taking effect.
And then finally, the
AG 3.0 Project Silver.
And let me explain
what that means.
So WCAG accessibility
guidelines W-C-A-G,
it's a bit of a misnomer.
The WC is for web content,
but the guidelines are
for any software.
It's for native app software
whether it runs on mobile or on
a desktop platform.
It's for HTML-based
software that uses the web.
It's also for documentation.
So originally, they decided to
drop the WC from WCAG and just
call it AG:
Accessibility Guidelines.
For those of you who remember
your high school chemistry,
AG is the periodic
symbol for silver.
And so that's how this ended
up being called Project Silver.
Another thing that's coming
out in 2022 is the
European Accessibility Act.
That will be the
first extension,
in terms of adoption by
the EU member states,
where each EU member state will
had to have locally adopted
the pending European
Accessibility Act,
and then the European
Accessibility Act
will be final in 2025.
And that will include websites
regardless of whether or not
they're public facing, so
it will be all websites,
and it also includes
products that have hardware
components to them.
So the European Accessibility
Act is much broader than EN
301549, which had these stop
sell deadlines in 2019 and 2020,
and then for the web,
and then the apps
kicking in, in 2021.
So this is a "how did we get
here" and "where is it that
we know that we're going."
So what's going to be part of
all of these W3C guidelines?
Well, first of all, I want
to talk a little bit about
WordPress accessibility, and
this may have already been
discussed in
previous conversations,
so I won't take too
long to go through it.
But they are a bunch of
accessible templates out there.
There are accessible
plugins out there.
If you take an accessible
template and you put
an inaccessible plugin in it,
you've just broke accessibility.
So the entire experience
needs to be accessible.
It's not just enough for the
template to be accessible.
Things that commonly used
with WordPress that are mostly
accessible, but you have to make
sure that you implement them in
an accessible manner are
Microsoft and Google forms,
SurveyMonkey, Mailchimp,
Qualtrics and SurveyGizmo.
Lots, and lots and
lots of survey systems,
especially survey systems that
are designed to go with design
tools, those tend
to be inaccessible.
It's the standalone survey
systems that occasionally
are accessible.
But you need to check these
things because if you implement,
for example, Hotjar, on
an inaccessible--sorry.
You implement Hotjar on
top of an accessible system,
Hotjar is inaccessible, that's
going to cause problems
for your disabled users.
Okay, so, as I said make sure
that your entire experience
is accessible.
That includes the
surveys, the communications,
you want to have an
accessibility email address
where people can send in
comments or complaints.
You should have an accessibility
statement on your site.
You need to make sure that
your customer support can handle
people who are contacting you
using assistive technology.
That usually means you want
to have two modes of customer
support, one that's voice based;
one that's not voice based.
At a minimum, if you're
a teeny, tiny company,
email is going to be the most
accessible customer support.
My deaf daughter will rarely
pick up the phone and call
people through a relay service
because it's just too slow and
aggravating for her.
You want to make sure
your social media posts
are accessible.
That means use captioning and
described audio for your--
any videos that you're
posting when necessary,
but don't use an accessible
WordPress template and then
partner it with
inaccessible vendors,
because you can't call yourself
accessible anymore
at that point.
So the first thing that's
coming and it's already somewhat
released is COGA.
And COGA stands for
Cognitive Accessibility.
So before I get
too far into COGA,
I'm going to talk about the
W3C process overall
for doing updates.
First, they charter
a task force.
And so, there is a
COGA Task Force.
Every Task Force has a charter.
That means it has a very
specific focus list of things
that that Task Force is allowed
to research and published
guidelines are.
Then the second thing they
do, is they solicit volunteers.
W3C is largely a
volunteer driven organization.
There are some
permanent employees,
but I would say
probably three quarters,
if not more of every
Task Force is volunteers.
You can join at any
time, and that is a hint.
If you go to the W3C website,
you can set yourself up
an account and you can request
to volunteer for a particular
Task Force.
Then there is this, what seems
to be sometimes endless series
of meetings that includes
drafting new guidelines,
and in the end, there is a vote
amongst the Task Force to decide
whether or not the guidelines
should be presented
to the public.
That is a system that was
set up because the groups,
the Task Force are large enough
that you're not going to be able
to make all the
people happy all the time.
And everybody has
their own perspective.
I am participating as a person
who works for a super large
public sector--not--sorry,
not public sector.
Super large private
sector tech company.
Other people who belong to
the Task Force work for small
consultant companies,
large consulting companies,
accessibility-specific companies.
We have people who
belong--who work for banks,
who work for Google,
who work for Amazon.
So there's a lot of different
voices on the Task Force and not
everybody is going to be happy
with the end result all the
time, which is
why there's a vote.
Okay, so we repeat number three
as many times as necessary
to get something that we feel
is good enough
to release to the public.
So right now, if you want to
join the Silver Task Force,
you have to commit at least
six hours a week of time to the
meetings that are happening and
the outside drafting homework
that you may be assigned, after
you feel that your skills and
your integration is at a
good enough level that you
can participate in
some of that work.
Okay, then what happens is
something called the
First Public Working
Draft is released.
Sometimes, additional
information is released as well.
For example, there is a note
that's currently been published
about the challenges of applying
the W3C guidelines to SAS,
to cloud-based software that
don't have monolithic releases,
that are releasing little,
teeny tiny updates all the time.
So some things are notes
but some things are--there's
definitely always a
First Public Working Draft.
Then there's a comment period
where people can submit in the
public, non-volunteers can
submit comments and we loop
back to number three.
So we take the comments,
we have more meetings,
we decide whether or not
we're going to update what we
published in the First Public
Working Draft and then
we vote again.
Once that is done, then we have
the Second Public Working Draft.
So this will be an updated
version that contains comments
integrated that were
decided to be included.
You know, again,
a comment period,
obtaining comments
from the public.
Loop back to number three.
So you can see lots, and
lots and lots of meetings.
And then the
standard becomes final.
So this is what we're working
on right now with WCAG 2.2,
Silver and COGA.
All three of those are in
the middle of these processes.
And then after the
standard becomes final,
it's outside of W3C's control,
but it does get incorporated
into laws,
lawsuits and settlements.
It took four months from the
time that WCAG 2.1 was released
until we saw it in the
first settlement agreement,
so that was really, really fast.
Most of the time you'll see that
companies that are entering into
settlement agreements
get about 18 months,
from the time of the settlement
agreement was executed until
they have to be compliant
with what's in
the settlement agreement.
But it can be shorter because
the settlements are purely
within the control of the
company that got sued and
the people who sued them,
the plaintiffs and the
defendants, effectively.
Okay, so looking at the
Cognitive Accessibility
Task Force, it's a joint Task
Force between the Accessible
Platform Architectures Group
and the Silver Group,
the Web content
accessibility guidelines.
We call that AG WG.
So they are producing a
whole ton of documentation,
and guidance documents, and
research and updating all W3C
material that addresses issues
that are in the cognitive space.
So what's in the
cognitive space?
The cognitive space includes
things like neurodiversity.
So that would be
attention deficit disorder,
dyslexia, dyscalculia, anything
related to autism or Asperger's.
It also includes
traumatic brain injury.
It includes memory loss.
It includes dementia.
Basically anything
that your brain,
where it might not be
functioning at 100% either
for temporary reasons such
as situational depression,
for example, or
chemotherapy side effects,
all the way to
permanent disabilities.
And the permanent disabilities
can either be acquired
such as traumatic brain injury.
That's always an acquired
disability or they can be
congenital like Down syndrome.
And I have put in a link.
Everything that you see that's
blue and underlined in this
deck is a link.
And so, that is the link to
the current COGA publication,
and the current
COGA publication,
in turn, is being used to inform
new guidelines that are going
into WCAG 2.2 and
Silver WCAG 3.0.
Okay, sorry, I got a little
bit ahead of myself.
So this is what disabilities
does focus--does COGA focus on.
Aphasia.
I always forget that one.
So that's my own
cognitive issue.
So these are the lists of all
the disability that COGA covers.
What types of guidelines
is COGA going to bring us.
First of all, there are a series
of plain language requirements.
You want to make sure that
you're using language
in your website.
So content, for all
intents and purposes,
that is at the
level of your reader.
And when it's beyond
the level of your reader,
you want to make sure that
you're linking to definitions
that your reader
can find easily.
So, for example, the word
dyscalculia is not super well
known to most people with 6th
to 8th grade reading levels,
so you would want to have a link
whenever you use that word in
your website, if it was
included in your website,
to a definition where
somebody could read,
"Oh, this is what
dyscalculia means."
The second type of groups of
guidelines that COGA will bring
us, is clear purpose
requirements,
making it obvious to the users
what it is that they're supposed
to be doing and what steps
they're going to be taking.
You know, basically telling
the user what the happy path is.
And the third set of
requirements that are coming are
the need to be able to operate
without having good memory.
So leaving more breadcrumbs
for your users to figure out
how they got to where they are,
and more importantly,
how to get back to where they
are when they don't--when they
forget things quickly, where
they don't have good
working short-term memory.
So those are the three different
categories that are--of
guidelines that are
currently pending,
and I'll get into more specifics
about what we know about what
WCAG 2.2 and 3.0 that include
instances of these types
of guidelines.
Okay.
So now, moving out of
COGA and onto WCAG 2.2.
So WCAG 2.2 is currently--has
its Second Public Working
Draft out.
It is still a work in progress.
What we're about to talk about
is still subject to change,
but it's getting towards final.
Originally, it was planned
to be final in November.
That got delayed a little bit
because of COVID,
and we're looking at WCAG 2.2
becoming final in approximately
June of next year.
So that's June of 2021.
And if you add the standard 18
months to when--that 18 months
is not a W3C you have
to implement this in
18 months guideline.
That 18 months is a somewhat
safe buffer range that we have
seen in the United States, where
once a standard becomes final,
if you implant that standard
within the next 18 months,
chances are you won't get sued.
So that means 18 months
from June of 2021,
takes us either to the end of
2022 or the beginning of 2023,
that you would have to
have these nine new standards
implemented by, in order to be
relatively safe from lawsuits.
I'm kind of using
some fudging words here,
because of course, you can
sued for WCAG 2.2 noncompliance,
the day after comes out.
But that's not
really reasonable, but
reasonable doesn't always factor
into United States litigation.
So 18 months is typically the
amount of time before you start
to see the new standards
reflected in laws and lawsuits.
Okay, so there are nine
guidelines, new guidelines that
pertain to WCAG 2.2.
Eight of them are A and AA.
Some I'm not going to
cover the AAA guideline.
I have a link to it in
the references section.
But typically, people don't
implement AAA guidelines.
They're fairly restrictive,
especially with respect
to colors, the AAA
guidelines in general.
And in the U.S., in particular,
AA is the standard that
everybody seems to have adopted.
So the focus here will be on the
eight new guidelines that are
either A or AA.
And you can see I've mentioned
in the link in each of these
slides, whether it's an A
or double A requirement.
So the first new
guideline is Focus Appearance.
So this guideline is related to
two other guidelines pertaining
to keyboard focus indicators.
One of the guidelines is 2.4.7,
which is that you have to have
a focus that's visible.
And one of the changes in
WCAG 2.2 is that guideline
in particular, is
moving from AA to A.
So A is the dealbreakers.
If you don't do this, you're
making it not work for a whole
ton of people with disabilities.
AA is you're making it hard.
So that's kind of the
distinction between the two.
So the other guideline that this
is referencing is 1.4.11 which
is Non-text Contrast.
So all three of these combined
relate to how you treat
keyboard focus indicators
for actionable objects.
Okay.
So the summation of all three
of the guidelines put together,
so not just the new one,
but all three of them,
you have to have a
keyboard focus indicator.
Nonnegotiable.
That comes from 2.4.7,
which as I mentioned,
is moving from AA to A, in
terms of requirement level.
Keyboard focus indicator has to
have a contrast of 3.0 to 1.0
at all times.
That comes from 1.4.11,
which came out with WCAG 2.1.
And then finally, the focus
indication area has to be
thick enough to be able to see.
So, the first requirement in
2.0 was you have to have
an indicator.
The second requirement
in 2.1 was,
"Oh yeah, you have to be
able to see the indicator.
You have to have
enough contrast."
The addition that they've made
in WCAG 2.2 is you really have
to see the indicator.
So it added an
aspect of thickness.
So it either has to be at least
8 CSS pixels on the short side
or it has to be 1 CSS
pixel all the way around.
You can't make it
any smaller than that.
You really don't
want to make it dashed.
Okay, so people have
gotten creative in trying to be
compliant without--compliant
with the letter of the guideline
without being compliant with
the spirit of the guideline.
Spirit of the guideline was
people like me with glaucoma who
are keyboard-only users, need to
be able to see the darn keyboard
focus indicator.
Because people were trying to
skirt that by making keyboard
focus indicators, you know,
light blue or yellow,
so that, you know, the designers
just didn't want it to impact
what the website looked like.
So then we added the
darkness requirements,
the contrast requirements.
Then designers tried to use
fancy patterns to again make it
not so visible, and so now the
guidelines have specific rules
about thickness.
So that is the first new
guideline that's coming with
2.2, and also the
related change to 2.1,
making the keyboard focus
indicator requirement
moving from AA to A.
Okay.
And then finally, the keyboard
focus indicator can never be
blocked by content.
You'll see that that is a
trend that started in WCAG 2.1,
with guidelines pertaining to
popovers and it's been extended
into over the
keyboard focus indicator,
that you can't block a keyboard
focus indicator with a popover
or with a dialog
box or something,
that's just going to make it
really hard for the
keyboard user to
be able to see it.
The next guideline that's being
added is what are called
Fixed Reference Points.
So--and you'll see that most of
these guidelines' additions come
from pain points So the
pain point for 2.4.11,
which is the one that
we just talked about,
is keyboard-only users
who use magnification.
The pain point for Fixed
Reference Points is for people
with any degree of vision loss
who use magnification or users
with dyslexia who are using
special CSS sheets to reformat
the text, to put better spacing
in or to turn off justification.
And what happens is when you
magnify it or when you add
additional spacing, all your
page numbering goes to heck.
So if you are in a classroom
setting or in a legal reference
setting, somebody
says, "I'm on page 37."
For you, it might be page
53 because you've added that
spacing or you've added that
magnification and the page
numbers have totally
gotten out of sync.
So you need to make sure that
when you're on your table of
contents, and it says this
section starts on page 37,
if it's really on page 53 on
your--what you're looking at,
that when you
click on that link,
it takes you to page 53 and
it doesn't take you to page 37
absolutes, because that's not
the information that
you're looking for.
So there have to be fixed
reference points so that people
can get to what it is that they
need to see in their environment
that matches what
somebody else is looking at it,
even if the page
numbers are different.
In the next item that's being
added is for drag and drop.
All drag and drop operations
need to be accessible
from the keyboard.
To me, that's kind of
a "duh" requirement.
I felt that it was a miss in
the previous visions of WCAG.
Inaccessible drag and drop
had to be flagged as a keyboard
violation, and somewhat
of a pillar violation,
in that something wasn't
operable by people using
assistive technology.
If you're looking for how to
implement accessible drag and
drop, Salesforce Lightning which
is an open source design system,
has good accessible
drag-and-drop patterns,
and I've linked to an article
that explains how to
implement them.
The Clarity Design System
which is at clarity.design,
it's one of the--it's the design
system that comes from VMware
that I work go on, will be
having accessible drag and drop
in a soon-to-be-released version.
It will probably come out
before WCAG 2.2 comes out.
And each one of these items, I
think I may have mentioned it,
but just in case I didn't, these
are all links to the
currently proposed text.
You can see that there will be
comments in that saying
open issues that need
to be addressed.
I've just tried to translate the
spirit of the requirement
into English on these pages.
So 3.2.7 to me, like 2.5.7,
was something that was
kind of a miss.
It could be implied that
there was a keyboard operation
violation, which that
requirement didn't actually work
for mobile.
So, for example, you
could have a hidden control,
for example, a swipe left
to delete in a native app,
and there was really no
guideline in WCAG 2.1
that made that illegal.
And you have to remember
not everybody can touch
their device.
Not everybody can
use a keyboard,
so you need to have a way from
the keyboard to trigger hidden
operations which then, Sip and
Puff devices and switch devices
use keyboard simulation to
order--in order to access those,
even though the user still
is never touching a keyboard.
So swipe left to delete in
a native app is where
hidden controls are most common.
Advancing controls for a
manual slide carousels.
So if you have a carousel
that doesn't automatically move,
and it's got arrows that only
come up when you mouse
over to them, those controls
are considered hidden.
So you need to have a keyboard
controls or they have to be
visible without requiring cover.
So another way you
could do it is making them
persistently visible.
How do you make them
persistently visible?
You could make that a feature
that's associated with the
login, so that would come under
personalization where you could
have somebody set up things
in their accounts saying,
"I want closed close captioning
turned on all the time.
I want all hidden controls
visible all the time.
I always want to use a
dyslexia friendly font."
Accessibility features that you
could associate with the login,
so that once the user logs
in, all those features get
set automatically.
Okay, Pointer Target Spacing is
another add-on from WCAG 2.1.
2.1 had a guideline for
what they called inadvertent
activation, but it
didn't have a spacing.
So that gave us a guideline of
minimum size of 44 CSS pixels
squared, but it
didn't talk about spacing.
Okay.
So this addresses the
spacing requirement.
So it expands on the 2.1
requirement pertaining
to the size.
And also in--this was
one thing that really
frustrated me in 2.1.
I lost the vote on this one.
Originally, it was proposed
to be a AA requirement and the
minimum touch target size
became a AAA requirement,
which meant really nobody
was obligated to implement it.
This Pointer Target Spacing
guideline is a AA requirement,
so people will be obligated,
for the most part,
to implement that.
Hey, then there are
three new guidelines in
WCAG 2.2 that pertain to Silver.
One is Finding Help, one is
Accessible Authentication,
and one is Redundant Entry.
And you can see all three of
these are A-level requirements,
because you're blocking an
entire group of people with
cognitive disabilities from
being able to interact with
your site or your software,
if you're not doing
these three things.
Okay.
So Findable Help, every single
page has to have help available
somewhere, okay, either how
to get in touch with a human;
how to contact the human, so
a phone number or an email
address; a self-help option, so
context sensitive help for that
page; or a fully
automated contact mechanism.
So you need to have one of those
minimum on every single page.
You know,
probably in the footer.
Although, WCAG is not
prescriptive about how you do,
how you implement
the guidelines,
just that the guidelines
have to be implemented.
Accessible Authentication.
So authentication
meaning logging in,
if it requires on a
cognitive function test,
you also have to have another
method that doesn't rely on
a cognitive function test.
Memory, which includes
remembering a password,
is considered a
cognitive function test.
So that means that to be
compliant with WCAG 2.2,
at the A-level, you're going
to have to have at least
two methods of being
able to log in.
The standard username and
password and some type of
secondary login, such as
biometrics or sending a link
or a code to a registered phone,
so that somebody who has memory
issues and can't
remember their passwords,
still has a secure
way of getting in.
Okay.
WCAG, the next one,
Redundant Entry.
This is one of my pet peeves.
I'm so glad that they
implemented this feature,
because to me, this
happens all the time.
So you try to log in on
something that you haven't seen
in a year, the login fails, you
press "forget password" to reset
your password and it asks
you to type your login again.
It had the login.
Your already put it in
when you tried to log in.
The website had the information,
but it's making you
type it in twice.
It takes a long time for people
with disabilities to enter in
things, especially when they're
using assistive technology.
So making people type things
twice is not satisfying
the spirit of being accessible.
Failing to implement auto
population is not following
the spirit of being accessible.
So do two things are going to be
part of WCAG 2.2 under
Redundant Entry which
is part of COGA.
And then finally,
where are we on 2.2?
The Second Public
Working Draft is out.
It's anticipated to be
final by next summer.
And as I mentioned, in the U.S.,
that means you're going to have
about 18 months before you
get in trouble in terms
of litigation.
I'll quickly go through Silver.
As I've mentioned, Silver
is the next evolution in
the W3C guidelines.
We took--and the Silver name
came from the idea that it was
just going to be called
Accessibility Guidelines,
but we took a vote and we
decided to leave the WC
in because it's what
people are familiar with.
So Silver is WCAG 3.0.
It's more of a focus on
functional need than
is on guidelines.
So, for example, remember those
three different guidelines that
pertained to
keyboard focus indicators?
Those are all going to
be grouped together.
I'm responsible for something
that's being called
content structure.
Content structure will be
the three different heading
guidelines that currently
exist grouped together.
In terms of scoring, there will
be a scoring function of how
compliant you are, which is
going to be more of a focus on
being substantively conformant.
Right now, as the
VPATs and WCAG stands,
if you have 5000 pieces of alt
text and you have one little,
teeny piece away in a corner
that's not working correctly,
you're considered
to be noncompliant.
Here, the focus is on the
absolutes of compliance
versus noncompliance.
It's more focused on can
a user with a disability
use this software?
And there's also going to be
completely brand-new areas
of guidance, one
will be on VR and XR,
so virtual reality
and extended reality.
And another area that's being
added is maturity modeling.
This isn't intended to
be an exhaustive list,
just to give you an idea of what
types of things are coming in
Silver and where it's going to
be different than the versions of
WCAG that we've had since 2006.
Okay.
So resource summary at the end.
These are all of the guidelines
that are coming with 2.2.
And I am happy at this point to
take any questions that Amber,
I believe, is going to pass
those to me from
the YouTube feed.
Yeah.
And I'm going
to drink some coffee.
Well,
thank you so much.
That was very informative.
There are quite a few questions
here about how you got started
and volunteering.
Volunteering.
Can you share a little bit about
your background and what got
you interested in this?
Sure.
So I'm what I like to
call really overeducated.
I started off, let's just say
more than three decades ago
with a degree in
computer science.
I went to CAL in the early '80s.
Then ten years after that, I
decided that I wanted to go
to law school.
My third year of law school,
we discovered that by middle
daughter was losing her hearing.
She had a
progressive hearing loss.
So I had intended to go
the anesthesiology of law,
which is intellectual property,
especially because I live
in Silicon Valley.
I was doing things like
trademarks and copyrights
and patents.
I ended up going into
advocacy for the deaf instead.
And so I did that
for eight years.
And then, basically put myself
out of business because I was
suing insurance companies
for failing to provide equal
treatment for deaf patients.
And I won a class action
lawsuit against Blue Cross,
and everybody folded.
And I was doing it
through a nonprofit anyway,
so it wasn't exactly like I was
making money hand over fist
with these lawsuits.
So I needed to pivot again, and
that was just when accessibility
was really starting to take off.
That was about eight years
ago, and I've been in
digital accessibility
ever since.
So I think it makes, it's a
really nice intersection
of what I love to do the most.
It's tech, because if
some developer says,
"Oh, that's going to be hard."
My response is always,
"Would you like me to code
that for you?"
I mean I can actually tell when
they're trying to avoid doing
something just because
they don't want to do it.
You know, I use my legal
degree to interpret the laws.
And then, I also went
back and got an MBA,
so I also see the business
perspective of accessibility
and I could write really
strong business cases for it.
So people automatically
assume that because I've used
a wheelchair since I was five,
that that's why I got
into accessibility.
But I actually got into
accessibility because
of my deaf daughter.
To me, my wheelchair is just a
mechanism of getting around.
I don't particularly
consider that a disability.
And then what was
the second question?
The second question
was about volunteering?
Yes.
So there's a couple of people
who have asked what kind
of tasks do people participate
in, in W3C Task Forces?
What are the tasks
that they end up doing?
What is the
volunteer experience like?
Sure.
So like I said, lots, and lots,
and lots and lots of meetings,
and a little bit of take away
and go and do some research
on your own.
So, for example on the Maturity
Modeling Subcommittee which
I co-lead with David Fazio,
right now what we're doing is we
have built a framework of
dimensions and attributes,
and everybody on the
team has one dimension,
and they are defining all
the different attributes.
So we are proposing, and
this hasn't even been reviewed.
I have to be a little bit vague
here because it hasn't been
reviewed by the
Silver subcommittee yet.
That's happening
in about a month.
But everybody has been
assigned one of those things.
So we go in, we put in straw man
information about what we think
the attribute should look
like for that dimension.
So let me give you an example.
For a dimension of
software development lifecycle,
it might include an attribute of
you have a software QA plan that
references accessibility
and assistive technology.
And then we get together and
we meet as a group and we talk
about each other's work, and we
wordsmith it so that in the end,
it all looks like it was written
with one cohesive approach by
one individual, instead of
actually being worked on by
six or eight different
individuals, because that's
really important
to the end product.
So meetings to
discuss what's going on.
We all work in Google Docs
together and put in comments
about each other's work.
We've refined the comments, then
the Maturity Model Subcommittee
takes that and reviews it
with the Silver Committee.
Once it's approved by
the Silver Committee,
then we take it up to
the--what they call the AG WG,
the Accessibility
Guidelines Working Group.
Once it gets approved by them,
then it gets published
for people, for the general
community to comment on.
And at any time, somebody who
is identified as a volunteer
can look at any of the
draft material in GitHub.
We use Git for versioning all
of our documents and
that's where we release from.
So hopefully that
answers your question.
What's
the time commitment?
And like
I said the first--
I'm sorry.
Minimum time
commitment is--yeah,
that's all right.
No, minimum time commitment
is probably practically about
six hours a week.
Okay.
It's not for people
who just want to pop in now
and then and see
what's going on.
It is definitely a
significant amount of time.
Good to know.
What's the best way--someone
asked what's the best way
to build yourself
into a WCAG expert?
What's the best way?
So, I would say
for starters, IAAP,
the International Association
of Accessibility Professionals
has two certification programs
right now and they're about
to add several more.
So there is the CPACC,
which is Certified Professional
Accessibility Core Competencies.
That's for lack of
a better phrase.
The Accessibility
Manager certification.
Then there's the WAS,
which is the Web Accessibility
Specialist certification.
That requires
significant coding chops.
And then the third certification
that's coming is
Strategic Leader
in Accessibility.
So that's people who are looking
at implementing accessibility
at the organizational level.
How do you set up
training programs?
support programs?
How do you may sure your
documentation is accessible?
So certifying through those
groups definitely demonstrates
that you have a particular
level of accessibility skills.
I write a lot.
I've been writing twice a
week now for two years.
I'm up to, I think, 154 articles
when I counted last week,
on various different
approaches to accessibility.
So the last article that I
wrote was about making sure that
people use context when they're
identifying what their alt text
should be.
So that's a way that you
can demonstrate your
accessibility skills.
I think building your
accessibility brand on
social media is
really important.
I wrote an article on that.
You definitely need to have an
accessibility elevator pitch
so you can explain in 45 seconds
what is it that you as
an individual bring to an
accessibility program.
So those things are all.
And then, obviously doing
presentations like this,
and preferably recorded
presentations so that people can
get them on demand.
That--so I submitted
seven presentations to
seven different conferences
a couple months ago.
Usually about 50% of my
presentations get accepted.
For some reason, six out
of seven got accepted,
so I've been really busy
giving talks this month,
but that's another aspect to
building your accessibility
brand, of people being able to
watch recorded presentations.
Well, we really
appreciate you coming
and sharing all the
information with us.
Those are all the questions
we have time for today.
But I'm sure that if you
have additional questions,
you can reach out to Sheri via
the information that she has
shared on the slides
or via her Medium blog.
Don't forget to
attend the next talk.
Just--
Oh, yeah.
Oh, sorry.
I was just going to say drop
me a--on LinkedIn,
that's a social media that I pay
most attention to or put a note
in one of my articles on Medium.
Okay.
Well, thank you so much, Sheri.